 
PHANTOM PROTOCOL 
Φ 
 
 
 
A Verifiable, Post-Quantum, GPA-Resistant 
Anonymous Communication Protocol 
 
 
 
WHITEPAPER  v0.1 — DRAFT 
 
March 2026 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Phantom Protocol is a novel anonymous communication protocol 
designed to withstand a Global Passive Adversary (GPA) — including 
nation-state surveillance infrastructure. Unlike existing systems such as 
Tor, I2P, Katzenpost, and Nym, Phantom Protocol combin es five 
properties no single protocol has simultaneously achieved: (1) 
cryptographically verifiable mixing via zero -knowledge proofs, 
eliminating the need to trust relay nodes; (2) a fully trustless PKI with 
no directory authorities, based on DHT -native node discovery and zk -
credential admission; (3) native hidden service support enabling 
anonymous server hosting; (4) true peer -to-peer architecture where 
every client is a routing node; and (5) a post -quantum cryptographic 
foundation deployed from inception.  A dual -mode design balances 
usability with extreme anonymity guarantees, offering Sphinx -based 
mix routing for general use and a DC -Net broadcast mode for 
information-theoretically anonymous transmission. This document 
presents the protocol's threat model, architectural design, cryptographic 
primitives, packet format, and implementation roadmap. 
PHANTOM PROTOCOL Whitepaper v0.1 — Confidential Draft 
© 2026 Phantom Protocol Contributors — Open Protocol, Open Source 3 
1. Introduction 
The modern internet was not designed with privacy as a fundamental property. Decades of 
commercial surveillance, state interception programmes, and mass data collection have created a 
network where anonymity is the exception, not the rule. Existing privacy tools — VPNs, Tor, I2P 
— represent meaningful progress but were designed to address a different, weaker threat model 
than the one that exists today. 
The revelations of global surveillance programmes demonstrated that well -funded nation-state 
adversaries operate at a scale that defeats every widely deployed anonymity system. A Global 
Passive Adversary (GPA) capable of observing a significant fraction of  internet traffic 
simultaneously can deanonymize Tor users through traffic correlation, can compromise VPN 
providers through legal compulsion, and can identify participants in pseudonymous systems 
through long-term statistical analysis. 
Phantom Protocol is designed from the ground up to be the answer to that adversary. It does not 
seek to retrofit privacy onto the existing internet — it defines a new communication layer that 
makes anonymity a mathematical guarantee rather than an operational assumption. 
 
1.1 Design Philosophy 
Three principles guide every architectural decision in Phantom Protocol: 
▸ Trust nothing. Trust nothing. Every node, every authority, every third party is a 
potential adversary. The protocol is correct even when every relay is malicious. 
▸ Prove everything. Prove everything. Anonymity guarantees must be cryptographically 
verifiable, not assumed. Nodes must prove correct behaviour, not merely promise it. 
▸ No centre. No centre. Any component that can be targeted — a directory server, a 
certificate authority, a foundation — is a vulnerability. The protocol has no such 
components. 
 
1.2 Scope of This Document 
This whitepaper specifies the threat model, high -level architecture, cryptographic primitives, 
packet format, routing mechanisms, node admission, and implementation roadmap for Phantom 
Protocol version 1.0. It is intended as the foundational reference for protocol implementors, 
security researchers, and contributors. 
2. Threat Model 
Phantom Protocol is designed to provide strong anonymity guarantees against the most powerful 
realistic adversary class: the Global Passive Adversary (GPA). 
PHANTOM PROTOCOL Whitepaper v0.1 — Confidential Draft 
© 2026 Phantom Protocol Contributors — Open Protocol, Open Source 4 
2.1 Adversary Capabilities 
We assume an adversary with the following capabilities: 
▸ Full traffic observation: the adversary can observe all packets on all links between all nodes 
simultaneously, including timing, volume, and packet sizes. 
▸ Node compromise: the adversary may operate or compromise an arbitrary fraction of relay 
nodes, up to but not including a global majority. 
▸ Legal compulsion: the adversary can compel any identifiable legal entity — including 
protocol developers, foundation members, or hosting providers — to cooperate or cease 
operations. 
▸ Long-term storage: the adversary stores all observed traffic indefinitely for retrospective 
analysis. 
▸ Computational power: the adversary possesses current and near-future classical and 
quantum computing capabilities, including cryptanalytically relevant quantum computers 
within a 10-year horizon. 
▸ Active interference: the adversary may inject, delay, replay, or drop packets on any link 
they control. 
 
2.2 Adversary Limitations 
The adversary cannot: 
▸ Break information-theoretically secure constructions (DC-Net mode). 
▸ Compromise a majority of honest nodes simultaneously. 
▸ Break post-quantum cryptographic primitives standardised by NIST (CRYSTALS-Kyber, 
CRYSTALS-Dilithium). 
▸ Force a user's device to reveal keys without physical access. 
 
2.3 Anonymity Goals 
Phantom Protocol provides the following formal anonymity properties: 
▸ Sender anonymity: an adversary observing all network traffic cannot identify which node 
originated a given message with probability greater than 1/k, where k is the anonymity set 
size. 
▸ Receiver anonymity: the destination of a message is not revealed to any relay node or 
passive observer. 
▸ Relationship anonymity: the association between sender and receiver cannot be 
established through traffic analysis. 
▸ Unlinkability: multiple messages from the same sender cannot be correlated as originating 
from a single entity. 
▸ Forward secrecy: compromise of long-term keys does not compromise past session keys or 
past communications. 
▸ Post-quantum security: security properties hold against adversaries with access to 
cryptanalytically relevant quantum computers. 
PHANTOM PROTOCOL Whitepaper v0.1 — Confidential Draft 
© 2026 Phantom Protocol Contributors — Open Protocol, Open Source 5 
 
⚠  Fundamental Tradeoff 
Phantom Protocol acknowledges the Anonymity Trilemma: strong anonymity requires overhead in 
latency and bandwidth. The protocol is honest about this tradeoff. Extreme anonymity (DC-Net mode) 
incurs latency of seconds to minutes. Standard mode (Sphinx mix r outing) incurs latency of 200 –
800ms. Neither mode is suitable for real-time voice or video. Users must make an informed choice. 
3. Prior Work and Differentiation 
Phantom Protocol builds on decades of academic and engineering work in anonymous 
communications. This section analyses the four most relevant prior systems and identifies the 
precise gaps that Phantom Protocol fills. 
3.1 Tor 
Tor uses onion routing with three -hop circuits and a centralised directory authority model. It 
provides low-latency anonymity suitable for web browsing but is explicitly not designed to resist 
a GPA. A network -level adversary observing entry and exit can p erform end -to-end traffic 
correlation with high confidence. Directory authorities represent a legal and operational attack 
surface. Tor's threat model explicitly excludes the adversary class that Phantom Protocol targets. 
3.2 I2P 
I2P uses garlic routing — a variant of onion routing that bundles multiple messages — and a 
distributed DHT-based directory. It is more resistant than Tor to directory attacks but similarly 
vulnerable to traffic analysis by a GPA. I2P's internal network (e epsites) provides some hidden 
service functionality, but the system is unproven against the adversary class Phantom targets. 
3.3 Katzenpost 
Katzenpost is the most technically advanced existing mix network and the closest predecessor to 
Phantom Protocol. It uses Sphinx packets, stratified topology, and post -quantum cryptography. 
However, it has three fundamental limitations that Phantom Protocol addresses: its PKI relies on 
directory authorities that are a legal attack surface; its mixing is unverified (nodes are trusted to 
shuffle honestly with no cryptographic proof); and clients are not routing nodes, limiting the 
anonymity set. 
3.4 Nym 
Nym is a production mix network based on the Loopix architecture with economic incentives via 
a native token. While it achieves meaningful deployability, it shares Katzenpost's limitations 
regarding unverified mixing and client/relay separation, additional ly introduces centralisation 
risks through token economics, does not support hidden services, and has not yet deployed post-
quantum cryptography. 
PHANTOM PROTOCOL Whitepaper v0.1 — Confidential Draft 
© 2026 Phantom Protocol Contributors — Open Protocol, Open Source 6 
 
3.5 Differentiation Matrix 
Property Tor I2P Katzenpost Nym Phantom 
GPA 
Resistance 
❌ ❌ Partial Partial ✅ 
Verifiable Mix 
(ZK) 
❌ ❌ ❌ ❌ ✅ 
Trustless PKI ❌ ✅ ❌ ❌ ✅ 
Hidden Services ✅ ✅ ❌ ❌ ✅ 
True P2P 
(client=node) 
❌ ✅ ❌ ❌ ✅ 
Post-Quantum 
(deployed) 
❌ ❌ ✅ ❌ ✅ 
DC-Net Mode ❌ ❌ ❌ ❌ ✅ 
Cover Traffic ❌ ❌ ✅ ✅ ✅ 
Table 1 — Feature comparison across major anonymous communication protocols 
4. Protocol Architecture 
Phantom Protocol is structured as a layered stack. Each layer has a precisely defined responsibility 
and interface. The layers are, from application to physical: 
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐ 
│             APPLICATION LAYER                        │ 
│   HTTP-over-Phantom, hidden services, storage API   │ 
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤ 
│           SPHINX PACKET LAYER                        │ 
│   Fixed-size, onion-encrypted, indistinguishable     │ 
│   from random bytes. Sphinx format (extended).       │ 
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤ 
│      VERIFIABLE MIX LAYER (standard mode)            │ 
│   Batch → ZK-shuffle proof → forward                 │ 
│   OR                                                 │ 
│      DC-NET BROADCAST LAYER (extreme mode)           │ 
│   All-to-all broadcast, message hidden in noise      │ 
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤ 
│         COVER TRAFFIC ENGINE                         │ 
│   Constant-rate dummy packets, always active         │ 
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤ 
│   TRUSTLESS NODE DIRECTORY (Kademlia DHT)            │ 
│   zk-credential admission, gossip propagation        │ 
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤ 
│         TRANSPORT (QUIC over UDP, port 443)          │ 
│   Obfuscated to mimic standard HTTPS/QUIC traffic    │ 
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘ 
Figure 1 — Phantom Protocol layer stack 
 
PHANTOM PROTOCOL Whitepaper v0.1 — Confidential Draft 
© 2026 Phantom Protocol Contributors — Open Protocol, Open Source 7 
4.1 Node Roles 
In Phantom Protocol, every participant is a node. There is no distinction between clients and 
relays. Every device running Phantom Protocol software simultaneously sends, receives, and 
routes traffic for others. This design ensures that the anonymity set i s identical to the total user 
population — the largest possible value of k in the anonymity guarantee. 
Nodes are categorised not by role but by capacity contribution: the fraction of their bandwidth 
and computation they contribute to the mix network. Low -capacity nodes (mobile devices) 
contribute minimally; high -capacity nodes contribute significantly. All nodes route traffic 
regardless of capacity tier. 
4.2 Dual-Mode Operation 
Phantom Protocol operates in two modes, selectable per-message: 
▸ Standard Mode uses Sphinx packet routing through a stratified mix network with 
verifiable shuffling. Latency target: 200–800ms. Suitable for web browsing, file transfer, 
and general communication. 
▸ Extreme Mode uses DC-Net broadcast for information-theoretically anonymous 
transmission. Latency: 5 seconds to several minutes depending on group size. Suitable for 
whistleblowing, high-risk communication, and cases where the sender's existence — not 
just identity — must be concealed. 
5. Cryptographic Primitives 
All cryptographic choices are made with the following constraints: security against both classical 
and quantum adversaries; independence from trusted setup (no ceremonies, no trapdoors); and 
composability within the Sphinx packet format and ZK proof systems. 
5.1 Primitive Selection 
Function Classical Post-Quantum Mode 
Key Encapsulation X25519 CRYSTALS-Kyber-1024 Hybrid (both) 
Digital Signatures Ed25519 CRYSTALS-Dilithium-3 Hybrid (both) 
Symmetric Cipher ChaCha20-Poly1305 — Unchanged (safe) 
Hash Function BLAKE3 — Unchanged (safe) 
ZK Proof System Groth16 STARK (roadmap) Groth16 now 
Mix Proof Bayer-Groth Shuffle — Standard mode 
Node Identity H(pubkey) H(kyber_pubkey) Self-certifying 
Table 2 — Cryptographic primitive selection 
 
5.2 Hybrid Key Exchange 
PHANTOM PROTOCOL Whitepaper v0.1 — Confidential Draft 
© 2026 Phantom Protocol Contributors — Open Protocol, Open Source 8 
Phantom Protocol uses a hybrid key exchange that combines X25519 (classical) and CRYSTALS-
Kyber-1024 (post -quantum). Both are computed independently and their shared secrets are 
combined via BLAKE3: 
shared_secret = BLAKE3( 
    X25519(ephemeral_sk, node_pk_classical) 
  || Kyber.Decapsulate(ephemeral_ct, node_sk_pq) 
  || context_string 
) 
This hybrid construction ensures security if either primitive is broken — classical security holds 
against current adversaries, post-quantum security holds against future quantum adversaries. 
5.3 Zero-Knowledge Shuffle Proofs 
The verifiable mix layer requires each node to prove that its output batch is a permutation of its 
input batch — with each packet correctly decrypted — without revealing the permutation. 
Phantom Protocol uses the Bayer-Groth verifiable shuffle argument, which produces a constant-
size proof regardless of batch size. 
The proof is published to the DHT and verifiable by any network participant. Nodes that fail to 
produce a valid proof within the batch window are ejected from the node directory and flagged in 
the gossip layer. 
For batch B = [p_1, p_2, ..., p_n]: 
  1. Node decrypts one Sphinx layer from each packet → B' 
  2. Node shuffles B' → B'' (permutation σ, kept secret) 
  3. Node computes π = BayerGroth.Prove(B', B'', σ) 
  4. Node publishes (B'', π) to next mix layer 
  5. Any verifier: BayerGroth.Verify(B', B'', π) → {valid, invalid} 
6. Sphinx Packet Format (Extended) 
Phantom Protocol uses an extended version of the Sphinx packet format. Every packet has an 
identical size (1452 bytes — one Ethernet MTU minus IP/UDP/QUIC overhead). All packets are 
indistinguishable from random bytes to any observer who does not hold the appropriate key 
material. 
Phantom Sphinx Packet (1452 bytes): 
┌────────────────────────────────────────────────┐ 
│ HEADER (256 bytes)                             │ 
│  ├─ Blinded group element (X25519+Kyber): 96B  │ 
│  ├─ Routing info (onion-encrypted): 128B       │ 
│  └─ Per-hop MAC (BLAKE3): 32B                  │ 
├────────────────────────────────────────────────┤ 
│ BODY (1196 bytes)                              │ 
│  └─ Payload (encrypted, PKCS7-padded)          │ 
└────────────────────────────────────────────────┘ 
The routing info encodes the next-hop address, encrypted under the current node's key. When a 
node processes a packet, it decrypts its layer, reads the next-hop address, and removes its layer — 
the resulting packet is identical in size to the input, as the routing info field is shifted and a random 
block appended. 
PHANTOM PROTOCOL Whitepaper v0.1 — Confidential Draft 
© 2026 Phantom Protocol Contributors — Open Protocol, Open Source 9 
Cover traffic packets are structurally identical to real packets. They contain encrypted dummy 
payloads that are discarded at the exit node (or looped back as loop cover). No node — including 
the exit — can distinguish a cover packet from a real packet. 
7. Trustless Node Directory 
The absence of directory authorities is the most structurally significant difference between 
Phantom Protocol and all existing mix networks. Phantom replaces centralised directories with a 
three-component trustless PKI. 
7.1 Node Identity 
A node's identity is derived entirely from its cryptographic keys — no registration with any 
authority is required: 
node_id = BLAKE3(ed25519_pubkey || dilithium_pubkey || kyber_pubkey) 
This identity is self -certifying: any participant can verify that a node's claimed identity matches 
its keys without consulting any third party. 
7.2 Sybil Resistance via Proof-of-Work 
To join the node directory, a new node must solve a moderately difficult PoW puzzle tied to its 
node_id and the current network epoch. The puzzle difficulty adjusts to target a network -wide 
node admission rate, preventing rapid Sybil attacks without requiring trusted registration. 
admission_token = PoW(node_id || epoch || nonce) 
  where H(admission_token) < target_difficulty 
7.3 DHT-Based Discovery 
Nodes publish their descriptors (node_id, IP, port, public keys, capacity tier, PoW admission 
token, epoch signature) to a Kademlia DHT. Descriptors are signed by the node's 
Ed25519+Dilithium keys. Any node can verify any descriptor without contacting the publishing 
node. 
Descriptors expire at the end of each epoch (default: 1 hour). Nodes must re-solve the PoW puzzle 
each epoch to remain in the directory. This limits the window of usefulness of a compromised 
descriptor and ensures the directory reflects currently-online nodes. 
7.4 Gossip Propagation 
The DHT is augmented with a gossip protocol for rapid propagation of node ejections (invalid 
shuffle proofs, equivocation, detected misbehaviour). Ejection notices are signed by the detecting 
node and propagated to all peers within seconds, preventing a mi sbehaving node from serving 
additional traffic while its DHT entry expires. 
PHANTOM PROTOCOL Whitepaper v0.1 — Confidential Draft 
© 2026 Phantom Protocol Contributors — Open Protocol, Open Source 10 
8. Hidden Services 
Phantom Protocol provides native hidden service support — the ability to host a server whose IP 
address is permanently unknown to all clients, all relays, and all observers. This fills a critical gap 
left by both Katzenpost and Nym. 
8.1 Address Derivation 
A hidden service address is derived from the service's long-term public key: 
service_address = BLAKE3(ed25519_pubkey || kyber_pubkey)[:32] 
  represented as a 52-character Base32 string with .phantom TLD 
  
  Example: 3xk7m2nqvabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz4567890aa.phantom 
The address is self -authenticating: a client connecting to a .phantom address automatically 
verifies that the server holds the corresponding private key, preventing impersonation without 
any PKI. 
8.2 Rendezvous Protocol 
Client and server establish a connection through a rendezvous point inside the Phantom network 
— a randomly selected honest node that neither party knows the other's IP address through: 
▸ Server selects N introduction nodes and registers with each via Sphinx-routed messages. 
▸ Server publishes introduction node list to DHT, signed with service key. 
▸ Client retrieves introduction node list, selects a rendezvous node, and sends a rendezvous 
request to the server via an introduction node. 
▸ Server builds a Sphinx circuit to the rendezvous node. Client and server exchange keys 
through the rendezvous node and derive a shared session key. 
▸ All subsequent communication is encrypted end-to-end and routed through the mix 
network. The rendezvous node sees only encrypted traffic. 
9. DC-Net Extreme Mode 
For the highest -risk communications — whistleblowers, journalists in hostile environments, 
dissidents under active surveillance — Phantom Protocol offers DC -Net mode, which provides 
information-theoretic sender anonymity. Unlike all other anonymity mechani sms, DC -Net 
anonymity does not depend on any computational hardness assumption. It is secure even against 
an adversary with unlimited computational power who observes all network traffic. 
9.1 Operation Principle 
DC-Net mode operates within a group of N participants. In each round, every participant 
broadcasts exactly one message of fixed size. The real message from the actual sender is XOR -
combined with random pads shared with each other participant. All other participants broadcast 
only their random pads. The XOR of all broadcasts reveals the real message, but any subset of N-
PHANTOM PROTOCOL Whitepaper v0.1 — Confidential Draft 
© 2026 Phantom Protocol Contributors — Open Protocol, Open Source 11 
1 participants is computationally and informationally indistinguishable from any permutation of 
senders. 
For group G = {n_1, n_2, ..., n_N}: 
  
  Each pair (n_i, n_j) shares a random pad: pad_ij 
  Sender n_s wants to send message M 
  
  Broadcast from n_s: M XOR pad_s1 XOR pad_s2 XOR ... XOR pad_sN 
  Broadcast from n_k (k≠s): pad_k1 XOR pad_k2 XOR ... XOR pad_kN 
  
  XOR of all broadcasts = M  (all pads cancel) 
  No participant or observer can determine which node sent M 
9.2 Collision Resolution 
When two participants attempt to send simultaneously, a collision occurs that is detectable (the 
XOR of both messages appears). Phantom Protocol uses a reservation protocol: before each 
round, participants use a lightweight coordination phase to claim a transmission slot. Slot claims 
are themselves anonymised through a smaller DC -Net, ensuring that even the act of claiming a 
slot reveals nothing about the claimant's identity. 
9.3 Group Formation 
DC-Net groups are formed dynamically from participants in a geographic or network proximity 
cluster. Group size is bounded between 8 and 128 participants — below 8, the anonymity set is 
too small; above 128, coordination overhead becomes excessive. Group m embership is rotated 
every 10 minutes to prevent long-term intersection attacks. 
10. Cover Traffic Engine 
Cover traffic is mandatory and non-negotiable in Phantom Protocol. Every node sends exactly one 
packet per time slot (default: 100ms) regardless of whether it has real traffic to send. This 
eliminates the single most powerful attack against mix networks: timing correlation. 
Three types of cover traffic are generated: 
▸ Loop cover: packets routed through the mix network that return to the originating node, 
verifying that the node's circuits are functioning correctly. 
▸ Drop cover: packets routed to a randomly selected exit node and discarded. These are 
indistinguishable from real traffic to all relay nodes. 
▸ Decoy traffic: packets addressed to real nodes carrying encrypted dummy payloads. 
Recipients discard dummy payloads silently. 
Cover traffic generation is handled by the Phantom Protocol daemon and is not configurable by 
the user. Users cannot disable cover traffic. This is an intentional design constraint — optional 
cover traffic provides no anonymity guarantee because its absence is itself a signal. 
PHANTOM PROTOCOL Whitepaper v0.1 — Confidential Draft 
© 2026 Phantom Protocol Contributors — Open Protocol, Open Source 12 
11. Implementation Roadmap 
Phantom Protocol will be implemented in Rust, using the async runtime Tokio and the QUIC 
implementation Quinn. The following roadmap targets a production-ready v1.0 release within 18 
months of project inception. 
 
Phase Timeline Deliverable Milestone 
Phase 0 Months 1–2 Protocol specification 
complete 
This whitepaper + formal 
spec 
Phase 1 Months 2–5 Core primitives library Sphinx impl, hybrid KEM, 
DHT 
Phase 2 Months 5–9 Mix network + ZK proofs Verifiable shuffle, private 
testnet 
Phase 3 Months 9–12 Cover traffic + 
obfuscation 
Pluggable transport, 
traffic shaping 
Phase 4 Months 12–15 Hidden services + DC-Net Rendezvous protocol, DC-
Net groups 
Phase 5 Months 15–18 Hardening + audit Security audit, public 
testnet 
Phase 6 Month 18+ Ecosystem + governance Client libs (Python, JS), 
open governance 
Table 3 — Implementation roadmap 
 
11.1 Reference Implementation Stack 
Component Library / Crate Purpose 
Async runtime tokio Async I/O foundation 
QUIC transport quinn Obfuscated UDP transport 
DHT libp2p (Kademlia) Trustless node directory 
Gossip libp2p (GossipSub) Node ejection propagation 
Sphinx packets Custom (Rust) Packet format implementation 
ZK proofs arkworks-rs Groth16 shuffle proofs 
Post-quantum pqcrypto Kyber + Dilithium 
Classical crypto dalek-cryptography X25519 + Ed25519 
Hash blake3 All hashing operations 
PoW Custom (Rust) Sybil resistance 
Table 4 — Reference implementation stack 
PHANTOM PROTOCOL Whitepaper v0.1 — Confidential Draft 
© 2026 Phantom Protocol Contributors — Open Protocol, Open Source 13 
12. Open Problems and Future Work 
Phantom Protocol is honest about the problems it has not yet solved. The following areas 
represent active research questions that will be addressed iteratively: 
▸ Optimal tuning: the mixing delay distribution and batch size parameters that minimise 
metadata leakage for a given anonymity set size and latency target remain an open 
research problem, consistent with the state of the art in mix network research. 
▸ DC-Net scalability: the current DC-Net design is bounded at approximately 128 
participants. Research into hierarchical DC-Nets or hybrid DC-Net/Mix architectures for 
larger groups is ongoing. 
▸ Mobile and constrained devices: mandatory cover traffic creates a battery and bandwidth 
burden on mobile devices. A capacity-tiered model that allows mobile nodes to contribute 
asymmetrically while maintaining the anonymity guarantee requires further design work. 
▸ STARK migration: Groth16 proofs require a trusted setup ceremony. Migrating to STARK-
based proofs (which require no trusted setup) is on the roadmap but awaits maturation of 
Rust STARK libraries. 
▸ Incentive design: unlike Nym, Phantom Protocol currently has no economic incentive for 
node operators. Designing an incentive mechanism that does not introduce centralisation, 
does not require a token, and is not gameable is an important open problem. 
13. Security Considerations 
⚠  Cryptographic Review Required 
This is a draft specification. No component of Phantom Protocol should be used in production without 
independent cryptographic review by qualified professionals. The authors make no security guarantees 
for this draft. 
 
The following security properties are claimed for a correctly implemented and deployed Phantom 
Protocol network: 
▸ Traffic analysis resistance: mandatory constant-rate cover traffic eliminates the primary 
attack vector against mix networks. A GPA observing all links cannot correlate sender and 
receiver based on traffic patterns alone. 
▸ Compromise resilience: the ZK shuffle proof ensures that even a fully compromised mix 
node cannot deanonymize traffic without detection. A compromised node that forwards 
packets in input order will be detected and ejected within one batch window. 
▸ Post-quantum security: the hybrid key exchange ensures security against quantum 
adversaries. All long-term keys use post-quantum algorithms; all ephemeral keys use both 
classical and post-quantum constructions. 
▸ No trusted setup requirement (roadmap): the current Groth16 ZK system requires a 
trusted setup ceremony. The STARK migration will eliminate this requirement entirely, 
removing the last trusted party from the system. 
PHANTOM PROTOCOL Whitepaper v0.1 — Confidential Draft 
© 2026 Phantom Protocol Contributors — Open Protocol, Open Source 14 
14. Governance and Openness 
Phantom Protocol is an open protocol. No entity — including its original authors — has exclusive 
authority over the protocol specification. Governance follows the model established by successful 
open protocol communities: 
▸ The protocol specification is maintained as an open document with versioned releases. 
Changes require consensus among active implementors. 
▸ The reference implementation is released under a permissive open-source license (Apache 
2.0 or MIT, to be determined). 
▸ No foundation, company, or individual holds trademark or patent claims over the protocol 
or its name. 
▸ Any individual or organisation may implement the protocol, operate nodes, or build 
applications without permission or fees. 
The protocol's openness is not merely philosophical — it is a security property. A protocol 
controlled by any identifiable entity can be compelled. A truly open protocol with multiple 
independent implementations has no centre to attack. 
15. References 
The following works are foundational to Phantom Protocol's design. Readers are encouraged to 
study them in the order listed. 
▸ Chaum, D. (1981). Untraceable Electronic Mail, Return Addresses, and Digital 
Pseudonyms. Communications of the ACM, 24(2), 84–90. 
▸ Danezis, G., & Goldberg, I. (2009). Sphinx: A Compact and Provably Secure Mix Format. 
IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy. 
▸ Piotrowska, A., Hayes, J., Elahi, T., Meiser, S., & Danezis, G. (2017). The Loopix 
Anonymity System. USENIX Security Symposium. 
▸ Bayer, S., & Groth, J. (2012). Efficient Zero-Knowledge Argument for Correctness of a 
Shuffle. EUROCRYPT 2012. 
▸ Corrigan-Gibbs, H., & Ford, B. (2010). Dissent: Accountable Anonymous Group 
Messaging. ACM CCS. 
▸ NIST (2024). CRYSTALS-Kyber (Module-Lattice-based Key-Encapsulation Mechanism 
Standard, FIPS 203). 
▸ NIST (2024). CRYSTALS-Dilithium (Module-Lattice-based Digital Signature Standard, 
FIPS 204). 
▸ Katzenpost Contributors. Katzenpost Design Documentation. https://katzenpost.network 
▸ Nym Technologies. Nym Whitepaper. https://nymtech.net 
▸ Groth, J. (2016). On the Size of Pairing-Based Non-interactive Arguments. EUROCRYPT 
2016. (Groth16 ZK system) 
Appendix A — Notation 
PHANTOM PROTOCOL Whitepaper v0.1 — Confidential Draft 
© 2026 Phantom Protocol Contributors — Open Protocol, Open Source 15 
Symbol Meaning 
GPA Global Passive Adversary 
k Anonymity set size 
N Number of nodes or DC-Net group members 
π Zero-knowledge proof 
σ Shuffle permutation (secret) 
B, B', B'' Packet batch (input, decrypted, shuffled) 
H(·) BLAKE3 hash function 
KEM Key Encapsulation Mechanism 
NIKE Non-Interactive Key Exchange 
MTU Maximum Transmission Unit (1452 bytes for Phantom) 
DHT Distributed Hash Table (Kademlia) 
PoW Proof of Work 
TLD .phantom (Phantom Protocol Top-Level Domain) 
Table A1 — Notation reference 
 
 
 
— End of Phantom Protocol Whitepaper v0.1 — 
